First thing we need to do is, we need
to create a step in which we can ingest
all of the data that we're
gonna be ingesting today.
So, just to show you the data,
there's this website called Kaggle,
which is kind of like a GitHub for data.
It's just like, some of it's open source,
I think actually, is all open source.
I don't know, some of it might be paid,
but you can go in here and
get tons of data sets,
and you can see right here I viewed this
IMDB movie data set and I downloaded it.
You can see the license here,
how you can use it, etc, etc.
So, great place to find data.
They also have models and
things like that, so
you can check out some of these models.
But, yeah,
highly recommend Kaggle for data.
Yeah, so we need to make our ingest step,
which is gonna take our CSV of movies that
you should already have in your repo,
and we're going to index them and
put them in our vector database.
So let's do it.
And this is gonna be an offline index,
so we're only gonna do this one time.
You don't have to do this many times.
We only have to do this once, and then we
can start querying in things from there.
So let's do it.
I'm gonna go to my code,
there's a folder here called rag.
That's where you'll find your
movie data set, the CSV file,
you can take a look at it if you want.
There's an ingest file and a query file.
So an ingest file is where we're gonna be.
First thing is, because this is gonna be a
script that we run outside of the context
of the AI, we need to go ahead and make
sure we import our environment variables.
So we'll do an import.env config.
This reads your .env file and
loads up everything.
So we wanna make sure we have that.
The next thing we wanna do is we wanna get
the index function from upstash vector and
the parse function from CSV parse sync.
So I'm gonna say index, and then, as,
I'm gonna call it UpstashIndex
from upstash/vector.
And then, import {} from csv-parse/sync,
I wanna get the parse function.
>> Scott Moss: So we got that.
And then I'm just gonna get these fs,
file, module, the path, and
ora, it's like a loader that
we can show in the terminal.
So, fs from fs, you can do
node:fs if you wanna be specific.
Import path from node:path, up to you.
And then, ora from ora.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, so we got those.
Now we wanna initialize our index.
This is the same index that
you just created on upstash.
We're getting a reference to it here, so
you could just say,
const index = new UpstashIndex.
And actually, you don't even have to pass
in these environment variables like this
if they're already set in your environment
variable with the exact same name as this.
And we loaded them, we did here.
It'll just find it.
So you don't have to pass
these in if you don't want to,
I'm just doing it to be explicit.
So I will do that.
And actually, that's not what I call them.
Well, I don't wanna look at my
file to show you what they are, so
I'm not gonna add them.
[LAUGH] I'm just gonna ask, couldn't.
But trust me, I'm pretty sure you don't
have to add them if you use the exact same
names that was on the dashboard.
Which, if you just copy and paste it
from the dashboard, you should be good.
But put them in here if you want.
They're like this.
And I'm pretty sure that's it.
Now, we need to index our movie data.
Let's walk through this strategy.
So, first thing we need
to do is load up our CSV.
If this is a bigger file,
this is a couple megabytes,
you wouldn't just load
this thing up in memory.
You probably don't have that
much RAM on your computer.
It's not that big of a file,
so we're gonna load up.
It's a couple kilobytes.
It's not even a megabyte.
But if this was a bigger file,
you would stream this row by row and
do it that way, but we're not.
So I understand that people
are looking this like,
why are you loading this up memory?
It's not a big file.
We're gonna load it up in memory.
This parse function is essentially
just gonna turn into JSON for us, so
we have JSON.
And then, I'm being super dramatic here,
because there's a better way to do this,
but I want you to just to
see what it looks like.
Is, for each one movie, we're going
to upsert the index in the database.
So, if you don't know what upsert means,
upsert just means,
create it if it's not there,
if it is there, just update it.
That's what upsert means.
Update it, create it if it's not there.
So we're gonna do that one at a time,
serially.
So it's gonna take, I don't know,
depending how fast your computer,
your connection is,
this might take 60 seconds.
Maybe a little more.
Upsert takes in an array of these,
so we can honestly,
probably do them all at one time.
But I think it's just more dramatic and
cool just to see them do it one at a time,
so you kinda know what's happening.
When it happens so quickly,
you don't really know what's going on.
So doing one at a time,
I think is really cool.
So we do that, and
then we just call the function,
cuz we're never gonna
import this file anywhere.
We're just gonna call it from the command
line index, it's offline index.
We're never gonna run this at run time or
anything like that.
Cool, okay, let's do it.
So I'm gonna say const indexMovieData
>> Scott Moss: Async, and then, yeah, so
the spinner,
this is something that I use all the time.
It shows you a really nice spinner in the
terminal, otherwise you're just looking at
a blank screen and
you have no idea what the hell's going on.
So I'm gonna start my spinner.
I'm gonna grab my data.
>> Scott Moss: Equals,
what are we doing here?
Yeah, so let's get the path,
let's get the read file
sync,
>> Scott Moss: Or,
I should say, moviesPath, or
whatever, = path.join, and then,
here's the thing, I don't think you can do
dirname anymore for using modules and NPM.
There's just another way to do it.
So you can't use dirname like that.
So we're gonna use process.cwd,
which is, current working directory.
If you don't know what that means,
it just means the current
directory that you're on.
And our file is located at source rag,
this path.
So it's relative to the root
of this folder, right?
The current working directory is
the directory in which you run the command
from, not the directory this file is in,
not to be confused.
So when we run this command,
we'll be in this directory, the root here.
So relative to this root, here's the file.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, the next thing
we wanna do is read the file.
So let's do that, and
then get the records.
So we'll do that,moviesPath,
read that file.
>> Scott Moss: And
then records would be csv, I'm sorry,
it'll be parse:csvData columns true.
So the option that I had.
Yeah, skip empty lines.
Definitely, yeah, do that.
That will, I think the data is clean,
but just do that.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so we got that,
pretty simple, nice to update your text.
To update the loader, you can just call
.text and set it equal to something so
it'll be like, cool.
Now we're gonna start the movie indexing.
And then, here we wanna do a for of loop.
For of loop allows you to
do async things serially.
So we can not go to the next one
until the previous one is done.
You can't do that in a for
loop, or stuff like that.
So for of loop allows you to do that,
which is really cool.
We'll update our spinner text to be like,
indexing this movie,
all the column names are capitalized,
so capital Title.
And then from there,
as far as how you format this,
there's two things you got to think about.
Whatever you put on data, that's the thing
that's gonna be converted to a vector.
So think about a query that a user might
ask, forget about the metadata, just
think about a query that they might ask
for, and that being turned into a vector.
What vectors would you want that
user's query to be compared to?
So that's what you wanna put here.
So basically, what do you want them to be
able to search for without the metadata,
just vector to vector?
That's what you wanna put in your text.
And this is where the chunking comes from.
Luckily for us,
this is not a lot of tokens, so
we don't have to do any chunking.
But if this was, I don't know,
a couple thousand tokens,
we have to break this up.
Okay, cool, now we gotta figure
out a chunking strategy.
And each chunk is its own upsert, for
instance, like another level to it.
But this is not a lot, so
we can just chunk some things.
So my strategy was, I'll put the title,
I'll put the genre,
I'll put the description.
That's all I'm gonna do as far as vector.
You can do whatever you want,
however you want to be able to search,
you can put whatever information.
So if you think having the year in the
database is good, so if someone types in
a year, it'll find something with
that year, yeah, you can do that.
You can also do that as a metadata
search as well, which is different.
So there's no right or wrong answer, you
kind gotta figure out what works for you.
So I'm just gonna do this in no particular
order, you can do whatever you want.
You can follow me or choose not to,
play around with it.
So, this is the text,
I'm just gonna say that.
I'm actually gonna do the periods.
I think I tried this with the dashes and
it was bad.
Not bad, it just wasn't as good.
So we'll put the title, I'll put
the genre, I'll put the description.
>> Scott Moss: And then from there,
we're going to call upsert,
we have to give it an ID.
If we don't, it'll make one,
which is fine.
But in case you run this again,
you want this to be idempotent.
If you don't know idempotent means,
it just means, if I do the same.
So when it comes to mutated things,
like upserting, updating,
deleting, creating, anything that modifies
or creates a resource on some service or
database somewhere.
If I call it again,
I don't want some weird side effect,
I just want it to have happened once,
right?
This is very important for
financial systems,
where if I call transfer this money
from this account to this account.
It'll do it, and for some reason,
I did it at the same time, or
slightly after on my other device,
I should get back the same result.
It shouldn't transfer it again.
It should have already realized
that it transferred it, and
the system won't break.
So, a lot of systems have idempotent IDs,
where they'll send you back an ID that
you can send up again, so
it knows how to track that.
So by us supplying our own ID here,
if we were to run this again,
we we would not be creating
something else in the database,
it would only update the one that
was already there by this ID.
So let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: Try, catch,
I don't want this to break, so
obviously I'm gonna try catch this.
And then I'm going to say,
await index.upsert, like this.
ID is gonna be the title,
the data is gonna be the text, and
then we have the metadata.
And again, you can do whatever
you want here for the metadata.
I think I have a TypeScript type.
Do I have a typescript type here?
No, maybe not.
You can do whatever you want.
It's whatever you like.
Essentially, whatever you put here,
this is something that you would
probably expose to either your user so
they can filter on it, or
you do some filtering yourself.
Maybe you have another LLM that figures
out these filters for you, who knows?
But this is like,
you want to be able to filter it and and
go down on this level for
each one of these fields.
I'm just gonna copy them all,
just as an example.
>> Scott Moss: And
I called it record in this example.
So I'll call it record, cool.
>> Scott Moss: And for me,
right now, I have year, but
the parser is reading this as a string.
So maybe I would convert this to a number.
Maybe I would convert
rating into a number.
I think it's reading as a string.
Same thing, I would convert these
to numbers, this to a number.
So that way, when I do the filtering,
it can do number comparisons on them and
stuff like that.
So in fact, I might also go ahead and
I'll just do it.
I'll just say, number.
>> Scott Moss: I don't think I need
a new number, so we'll do that.
>> Scott Moss: We'll do this,
that's a number, votes is a number,
>> Scott Moss: Ratings is a number.
And here's a number, cool.
All these numbers, watch this break.
[LAUGH] Cool, so we got that,
and then, for the error,
let's just update our spinner and
do a log.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
>> Scott Moss: And then lastly,
we can just say, cool, all movies indexed.
And I think succeed stops it already.
So I don't think I have to hit Stop.
And right now, that's not gonna do
anything unless I call the function.
So I'm gonna call the function here,
indexMovieData,
which calls this function
here that we just created.
>> Scott Moss: And
we should be safe to run it.
So you can execute the file
by doing npm run ingest,
I already have a script in here that I'm
pretty sure it works on Windows too.
Yeah, this works on Windows, it's just
calling npx, tsx, the path to that file.
So you can call that directly, or
you can just do npm run ingest.
If I didn't break anything with those
numbers, we should be good, and
I already have an index for this data,
so it should just be upserting mine.
Npm run, and just, let's see.
There we go.
So you should see something like this,
where it's just gonna go through and
index every single movie one by one.
And this is why I wanted
to do it one by one, so
you can see that it's doing
every movie one by one here.
This would have been done already
if we would have bashed it.
[LAUGH] We'd be done, all right?
But I wanted you to see this so
you understand what it's doing.
So, like I said, I think last time I
did this, it took like 60 seconds.
So give it a minute.
Literally, it'll let you know it's done.
There's a thousand movies,
so it's not too bad.
And then once you do it,
we can go check your dashboard, and
you should see 999 in there,
or whatever number.
All movies indexed,
go to your Upstash dashboard.
>> Scott Moss: I'm gonna go
to mine that I have here.
Hopefully, yeah, my upsert worked,
I still only have 999, not 2000.
So you should have this too.
If you don't have this and you didn't
get any errors, there was one time
I created an index on Upstash where I got
no errors, but I couldn't index anything.
And this was in prod,
I couldn't figure out what was going on.
I just created another index,
same code, and it worked.
That only happened one time.
So if you didn't get any errors but yet
you don't have anything in here, create
another index, swap out your environment
variables, and see if that helps.
But that literally only
happened to me one time,
and I've created 10,000 of these indexes.
So you can click on Data Browser,
you can search for
things, Captain America, and
Captain America sort of pops up.
So give it a try.
Yeah, let me see if my,
yeah, they're numbers now.
Yes, okay, so
now you could do metadata filtering.
So I only wanna see Space Journey
with a rating greater than
>> Scott Moss: 6, there we go.
So that works.
So everything here has
a rating greater than 6.
It's a space journey, actually, I'm a
snob, so give me anything greater than 8.
There we go, WALL-E, wow.
WALL-E that good?
8.4, I mean,
it was a good movie, but damn.